INTRODUCTION

  This is fpzip 1.1.0, a C++ library for lossless or lossy compression
  of 2D and 3D floating-point scalar fields.  fpzip was written by Peter
  Lindstrom at LLNL, and is based on the algorithm described in the
  following paper:

    Peter Lindstrom and Martin Isenburg
    "Fast and Efficient Compression of Floating-Point Data"
    IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics,
      12(5):1245-1250, September-October 2006.

  For information on the API, usage, and licensing, please see the header
  file inc/fpzip.h.

INSTALLATION

  The library has been written primarily for Linux, but has been successfully
  tested with the following compilers and platforms:

    clang 3.4 (Linux)
    clang 4.2 (Mac OS X)
    gcc 4.2.1 (Mac OS X)
    gcc 4.4.7 (Linux)
    icc 12.1.5 (Linux)
    mingw32-gcc 4.8.1 (Windows)

  To compile the library, type:

    cd src; make

  There is an example program in the examples subdirectory that compresses
  and decompresses multidimensional arrays of single- or double-precision
  floating-point scalar fields.  The example is meant to illustrate how to
  use the fpzip API, and can also be used to validate correct functionality
  of the library.  If the program fails, please consult src/Makefile for
  compile-time macros that may fix the problem.

VERSIONS

  fpzip 1.1.0, June 8, 2014

    - Modified API to pass arguments via a parameter object (FPZ).

    - Modified API to support reading the header before decompressing the
      floating-point data, thus allowing the floating-point array to be
      allocated based on the dimensions stored in the header.

    - Modified API to allow header to be included/excluded at run time
      rather than at compile time.

    - Modified testfpzip to allow the floating-point type to be specified
      on the command line.

    - Deprecated Fortran interface.

  fpzip 1.0.2, May 30, 2014 (internal release only)

    - Added support for specifying the precision in increments of one
      (floats) or two (doubles) bits for lossy compression.

    - Added support for data sets larger than 4 GB.

    - Added compile-time support for excluding header information, e.g.
      for in-memory compression of many small arrays.

    - Modified API to use size_t in place of unsigned int where appropriate.

    - Changed error handling to set fpzip_errno instead of writing to
      stderr and aborting.

    - Added more functionality to the testfpzip example program.

  fpzip 1.0.1, August 7, 2008

    - Added modes for bitwise type conversions beyond reinterpret_cast,
      which caused aliasing problems with gcc 4.1.2.

  fpzip 1.0.0, March 20, 2008

    - Initial release.

QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

  For bug reports and other questions, please contact Peter Lindstrom
  at pl@llnl.gov.
